                     NEdit Version 5.0.2, March 11, 1998
	     

PRODUCT DESCRIPTION

NEdit is a standard GUI (Graphical User Interface) style text editor for
programs and plain-text files.  Users of Macintosh and MS Windows based text
editors should find NEdit a familiar and comfortable environment.  NEdit
provides all of the standard menu, dialog, editing, and mouse support, as
well as all of the standard shortcuts to which the users of modern GUI based
environments are accustomed.  For users of older style Unix editors, welcome
to the world of mouse-based editing!

Please be sure to check the platform specific README files, i.e. README.sun
and README.ibm, for additional information about your particular system.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             TERMS AND CONDITIONS
                             ====================

This software has been made freely available with a request for
collaborative input subject to standard Fermitools Terms and Conditions
given in full below.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

AUTHORS

    Mark Edel, Joy Kyriakopulos, Arnulfo Zepeda-Navratil, Suresh Ravoor, Donna
    Reid, Jeff Kallenbach

    Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory - Mail Station 234
    P.O Box 500
    Batavia, IL 60510
    Internet: nedit_support@fnal.fnal.gov

Fermilab Standard Government Sponsorship Notice

    This work was performed at Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory,
    which is operated by Universities Research Association, Inc., under
    contract DE-AC02-76CHO3000 with the U.S. Department of Energy.


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

    Syntax highlighting patterns were contributed by: Simon T. MacDonald, 
    Maurice Leysens, Matt Majka, Alfred Smeenk, Alain Fargues, Christopher
    Conrad, Scott Markinson, Konrad Bernloehr, Ivan Herman, Patrice Venant,
    Christian Denat, Philippe Couton, Max Vohlken, and Markus Schwarzenberg.

    Regular expression code by Henry Spencer
    
    Nedit incorporates an altered version of Henry Spencer's regcomp and
    regexec code adapted for NEdit.  Original copyright notice:

	Copyright (c) 1986 by University of Toronto. Written by Henry
	Spencer.  Not derived from licensed software.

	Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose
	on any computer system, and to redistribute it freely, subject to the
	following restrictions:

	1. The author is not responsible for the consequences of use of this
	software, no matter how awful, even if they arise from defects in it.

	2. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented, either by
	explicit claim or by omission.

	3. Altered versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
	misrepresented as being the original software.


VERSION 5.0.2

5.0.2 is a bug fix release with very little new functionality (double-click
selection of ranges of delimiters, $line, $column and $modified macro
variables, smart-indent for Python).  The full list of changes and fixes can be
found in the ReleaseNotes file in the distribution directory. 

Version 5.0 was significant upgrade to NEdit, completing the macro language and
adding, syntax highlighting, smart-indent, continuous wrap mode, language
sensitive preferences, and many other new features.

Please note that syntax highlighting patterns are mostly user-contributed, and
that syntax highlighting is relatively new to NEdit.  If you don't like the way
your particular language is being highlighted, the patterns are quite easy to
change.  We would like to make the default patterns as robust and correct as
possible, so if you see something wrong, please don't just grumble quietly to
yourself, send mail to nedit_support@fnal.gov.

As of this writing, there are no known bugs in this software, except for the
few noted in the Problems/Bugs section of the on-line help, or the FAQ file
and the ReleaseNotes file in the distribution directory.  Please report any
problems, even if you think they are trivial.
    

BUILDING NEDIT

Pre-built executables are available for most major Unix and VMS systems, so
check ftp.fnal.gov in the /pub/nedit directory, and the contributed software
directory, /pub/nedit/<current-version>/contrib, first.

The two directories called source and util contain the sources for NEdit.  Util
should be built first, followed by source.  The makefile in this directory can
be used to build both in sequence if your system is one of the supported
machines and no modifications are necessary to the makefiles.  To build NEdit
from this directory, issue the command: "make <machine-type>_nedit"; where
<machine-type> is one of the supported machine types: sgi, ultrix, sunos,
solaris, hp, dec, or ibm.  For example, to build the Silicon Graphics version,
type:

	make sgi_nedit

If everything works properly, this will produce an executable called nedit in
the directory called source.


The Source Directories

Since executables are already available for the supported systems, you are
probably not just rebuilding an existing configuration, and need to know more
about how the directories are organized.

The util directory builds a library file called libNUtil.a, which is later
linked with the code in the source directory to create the nedit executable.

The makefiles in both source directories consist of two parts, a machine
dependent part and a machine independent part.  The machine dependent makefiles
contain machine specific header information and invoke a common machine
independent part called Makefile.common.  To compile the files in either of
these directories, issue the command: "make -f Makefile.<machine-type>"; where
<machine type> is one of the supported machine types.  For example, on a
Silicon Graphics machine, you would type:

	make -f Makefile.sgi

To add a new machine type or configuration, copy one of the existing machine
dependent makefiles and give it the name of the new system, for example:
Makefile.sony.  Then, make any required changes in the new makefile.

 
Building NEdit on VMS Systems

Command files are provided for compiling and linking files in the source
and util directories.  comutil.com compiles the files in the util directory
and produces two library files, vmsutils.olb and libutil.olb.  comnedit.com
compiles and links the files in the source directory to produce the nedit.exe
executable.


A Note about Lesstif

NEdit is not quite yet "Freed by Lesstif" (Lesstif is free version of Motif).
If you want to build NEdit from sources, and you want it to be as reliable as
the pre-built, statically-linked, executables you get from ftp.fnal.gov, you
still need a Motif library.  Motif comes free with most commercial Unix
systems, but for freeware systems like Linux and FreeBSD, you must purchase it
separately.  Lesstif is, however, rapidly nearing completion, so by the time
you read it, this warning may no longer be true!


INSTALLATION

NEdit consists of a single, stand-alone executable file which does not require
any special installation.  To install NEdit on Unix systems, simply put the
nedit executable in your path.  On VMS systems, nedit must be defined as a
foreign command so that it can process command line arguments.  For example,
if nedit.exe were in the directory mydir on the disk called mydev, adding the
following line to your login.com file would define the nedit command:

	$ ned*it :== $mydev:[mydir]nedit.exe

To use NEdit in client/server mode, you also need the nedit client program, nc,
which, again, needs no special installation, except in the VMS case, as above.


RUNNING NEDIT

If you are accessing a host Unix system from a remote workstation or X terminal,
you need to set the Unix environment variable for your display:

	% setenv DISPLAY devicename:0
	
where devicename is the network node name of the workstation or X terminal
where you are typing.  On VMS systems, the equivalent command is:

	$ set display/create/node=devicename

To run NEdit, simply type "nedit", optionally followed by the name of a file or
files to edit.  On-line help is available from the pulldown menu on the far
right of the menu bar.  For more information on the syntax of the nedit command
line, look under the heading of "NEdit Command Line."


PLATFORM SPECIFIC ISSUES

HP-UX Systems

If you have an older system, and experience problems, such as random crashing,
installing the patches:

    PHSS_5907
    PHSS_5908

or their newer counterpart:

   PHSS_6439
   PHSS_6440

is strongly suggested.  These fix a number of serious problems in HPs X and
Motif libraries.  If you still have problems, despite having installed these
patches, please send mail to nedit_support@fnal.gov.

If you are using HPVUE and have trouble setting colors, for example part
of the menu bar stubornly remains at whatever HPVUE's default is, try setting:

   nedit*useColorObj: False

IBM AIX Systems

Due to an optimizer bug in IBM's C compiler, the file, textDisp.c, must be
compiled without optimization on AIX systems.

IBM's Motif 1.2 library fixes a number of serious bugs in the earlier libraries
(the Motif 1.1 version has the menu items for setting the font in the current
window disabled, and can occasionally crash on window closing).

Linux Systems

Some Linux distributions are missing the /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/XKeysymDB file,
which is necessary for running Motif programs.  When XKeysymDB is missing,
NEdit will spew screenfulls of messages about translation table syntax errors,
and many keys won't work.  You can obtain a copy of the XKeysymDB file from
the contrib sub-directory of the NEdit distribution directory.  

The default key bindings for arrow keys in fvwm interfere with some of the
arrow key bindings in NEdit, particularly, Ctrl+Arrow and Alt+Arrow.  You
may want to re-bind them either in NEdit (see Customizing -> Key Binding
in the Help menu) or in fvwm in your .fvwmrc file.

Please read the note about Lesstif above.  NEdit is not yet certified with
Lesstif.  As of the current Lesstif release (0.82), you will experience quite
a bit of crashing.

SGI Systems

Beginning with IRIX 6.3, SGI is distributing a customized version of NEdit
along with their operating system releases.  Their installation uses an
app-defaults file (/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/NEdit) which overrides the
default settings in any new nedit version that you install, and may result in
missing accelerator keys or cosmetic appearance glitches.  If you are
re-installing NEdit for the entire system, just remove the existing app-
defaults file.  If you want to run a newer copy individually, get a copy of
the app-defaults file for this version the contrib sub-directory of the
distribution directory for this version on ftp.fnal.gov (/pub/nedit/<version>/
contrib/nedit.app-defaults), and install it in your home directory or set
XAPPLRESDIR or XUSERFILESEARCHPATH to point to a directory and install it
there.  In all cases, the file should be named simply NEdit.

No additional installation or resource settings are necessary on IRIX systems
before 6.3

Solaris (SunOS 5.3 and beyond) Systems

The nedit_solaris executable may require the environment variable OPENWINHOME
to be set to the directory where Open Windows is installed.  If this is not set
properly, NEdit will spew screenfulls of messages about translation table
syntax errors.

Solaris 2.4 -- Add -DDONT_HAVE_GLOB to the CFLAGS line in Makefile.solaris.

Solaris 2.5 -- Solaris 2.5 systems were shipped with a bad shared Motif
library, in which the file selection dialog (Open, Save, Save As, Include,
etc.) shows long path names in the file list, but no horizontal scroll bar,
and no way to read the actual file names.  Depending on your system, the
patch is one of ID# 103461-07, # 102226-19, or # 103186-21.  It affects all
Motif based programs which use the library.  If you can't patch your system,
you might want to just try the nedit_sunos executable (from ftp.fnal.gov
/pub/nedit), which is statically linked with a good Motif.  You can also set
the X resource: nedit.stdOpenDialog to True, which at least gives you a text
field where you can enter file names by hand.

Solaris 2.6 -- If you're experiencing performance problems (windows come up
slowly), the patch for Sun's shared Motif library is ID# 105284-04.  Installing
the patch alone will improve nedit's performance dramatically.  The patch also
enables a resource, *XmMenuReduceGrabs. Setting this to True will eliminate the
delay completely.

SunOS 4.x Systems

On some SunOS systems, NEdit will also complain about translation table syntax
errors.  This happens when Motif can't access the keysym database, usually
located in the file /usr/lib/X11/XKeysymDB.  If this file exists on your
system, but NEdit fails to locate it properly, you can set the environment
variable XKEYSYMDB to point to the file.  If you can't find the file, or if
some of the errors persist despite setting XKEYSYMDB, there is a XKeysymDB
which you can use to update or replace your /usr/lib/X11/XKeysymDB file
available in the contrib sub-directory of the NEdit distribution directory.
If you don't want to change your existing XKeysymDB file, make a local copy
and set XKEYSYMDB to point to it.

If you find that some of the labeled keys on your keyboard are not properly
bound to the corresponding action in NEdit, try the following:

  1) Get a copy of motifbind.sun (for Sun standard keyboards), or
     motifbind.sun_at (for Sun PC style keyboards) from the NEdit contrib
     directory on ftp.fnal.gov:/pub/nedit/v4_0_1/contrib.
  2) Copy it to a file called .motifbind in your home directory.
  3) Shutdown and restart your X server.


COMPATIBILITY WITH PREVIOUS VERSIONS

Existing .nedit Files

NEdit 5.0.2 is backward-compatible with .nedit files from older versions
(unless you wrote a .nedit file from the 5.0 beta-test version, or the
experimental syntax highlighting version, as discussed below).  However, if you
are upgrading from a pre-5.0 version, you should check your font settings, and
consider upgrading the original default macro menu entries as discussed below.

If you have been using a font other than the default for the text portion of
your NEdit windows, be sure to check the Preferences -> Default Settings ->
Text Font dialog, and select highlighting fonts which match your primary font
in size.  Matching in height is desirable, but not essential, and sometimes
impossible to achive on some systems.  When fonts don't match in height,
turning on syntax highlighting will cause the window size to change slightly. 
NEdit can handle unmatched font sizes (width), but leaving them unmatched means
sometimes columns and indentation don't line up (as with proportional fonts).

Most macros written for previous versions will function properly under 5.0's
new macro language.  The most common problems with old macros is lack of a
terminating newline on the last line of the macro, and the addition of "<" and
">" to the regular expression syntax.  These characters must now be escaped
with \ (backslash).

The default macros written from 4.0 versions all work under 5.0, with the
exception of "Unquote Mail Reply", which will fail because it uses the ">"
character in a regular expression, which now must be escaped with "\".  If you
wrote a .nedit file from 4.0, you will have the old version of the macro, which
needs to be updated.

The 5.0 defaults for macro menu entries also contain some worthwhile new
commands, and improvements to existing macros.  To see what these new macros
look like, you can temporarily re-name your existing .nedit file and run NEdit
without one.

There are several ways to integrate macros from the new version into an
old .nedit file.  If you have not added new macros of your own, simply remove
the line beginning "nedit.macroCommands" and all of the indented lines which
follow it from your existing .nedit file, and NEdit will re-generate the Macro
menu from its stored defaults.

If you have added macros of your own:

   1) Temporarily re-name your existing .nedit file
   2) Generate a new .nedit file by choosing Save Defaults from the
      Preferences menu.
   3) Copy and paste the new macros from the newly generated .nedit
      file into the "nedit.macroCommands" resource in your old .nedit file.

Beta 5.0 .nedit Files

If you wrote a .nedit file from the beta-test version of 5.0, you will be
missing one or two highlight styles used by default highlight patterns for
Perl, Verilog, and NEdit Macro, and you will get an error on the FORTRAN
highlight patterns, because the name has changed to "Fortran".  If you want to
preserve your existing .nedit file, you can edit it by hand to change the two
occurences of "FORTRAN" to "Fortran", and either remove the section beginning
"nedit.styles", or if you have made changes to styles that you want to
preserve, re-name your .nedit file, write a new one, and integrate the
new styles into your existing file.

Experimental Syntax Highlighting Version .nedit Files

If you wrote a .nedit file using the experimental syntax highlighting version
(color_nedit.tar), the syntax of the languageModes resource has changed, and is
not readable with 5.0.  If you want to preserve the .nedit file, you will have
to edit it by hand to remove the line beginning "nedit.languageModes", and all
of the indented lines that follow.  If you made significant changes to language
mode information which you don't want to re-enter via the Language Modes
dialog, you can edit each line of the resource by hand to conform to the new
spec by adding colons to the end).


FURTHER INFORMATION

More information is available in the file nedit.doc in this kit, from NEdit's
on-line help system, and from the enclosed FAQ file.  There is also a web page
for NEdit at: http://www-pat.fnal.gov/nirvana/nedit.html, or find out more
about Fermilab: http://www.fnal.gov, or information on other publicly available
Fermilab software: http://www.fnal.gov/fermitools.  For discussion with other
NEdit users, or to receive notification of new releases and news about news,
you can subscribe to one or both of the official nedit mailing lists.  You'll
find information on subscribing in the NEdit on-line help under Mailing Lists.  


SUPPORT

Help with the installation or use of NEdit is available by sending mail to

                        nedit_support@fnal.fnal.gov

which is auto-forwarded to the group in charge of NEdit support at Fermilab.

This software is furnished by Fermilab on an "as is" basis as a service 
to the wider community with the goal of stimulating collaborative use and 
further development.

Provision of the software implies no commitment of support by Fermilab.

The Fermilab Computing Division is open to discussing other levels of 
support for use of the software with responsible and committed users and 
collaborators.

Use of the software in experiments at Fermilab will be assured of a level 
of support as agreed to through the standard Memorandum Of Understanding 
process.

Users may send mail to the mail address given above, with the expectation 
that it will be read and noted.

Fermitools Special Products

Because of the special support needed for a few selected products Fermilab 
is only able to support the software under special agreement.  The support 
offered will be discussed and negotiated on an individual basis and may be 
different for different users.  To initiate discussions send mail to the 
mail address given above.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                         TERMS AND CONDITIONS IN FULL
                         ============================

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Fermitools Software Legal Information - October 16, 1997
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

COPYRIGHT STATUS:  Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory (FNAL) documents are
sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No.
DE-AC02-76CH03000.  Therefore, the U.S. Government retains a non-exclusive,
royalty-free license to publish or reproduce these documents or software for
U.S. Government purposes.  All documents and software available from this
server are protected under the U.S. and Foreign Copyright Laws, and FNAL
reserves all rights.

Terms and Conditions
--------------------
When a User distributes or otherwise obtains a software package included in
the Fermilab Software Tools Program, the user agrees to abide by the Terms and
Conditions of the Program below:

o   Any redistribution of the software shall be accompanied by this
    INFORMATION/LICENSE file and the product's ORIGIN file.

o   The User shall acknowledge the origin of the software as set forth 
    below:

        "This work was performed at Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, 
        operated by Universities Research Association, Inc., under contract 
        DE-AC02-76CH03000 with the U.S. Department of Energy."

o   The user is asked to feed back problems, benefits, and/or suggestions 
    about the software to the Fermilab Software Providers and/or Fermitools 
    management.

o   Any distribution of the software available from this server shall be at
    no charge, except for nominal media and distribution costs.  To obtain a
    license to commercialize any of the software programs available from this
    server, contact FNAL's Office of Research and Technology Applications,
    P.O. Box 500, MS-200, Batavia, IL 60510-0500.


Indemnification by User of Third Party Claims and Disclaimer of Liability
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
The User, his/her directors, officers, employees, and agents hereby release
and waive all claims against Universities Research Association, Inc. (URA)
operator of Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, its trustees, overseers,
directors, officers, employees, agents, subcontractors, successors and
assigns, for any and all liability and damages arising from the reproduction,
use or other disposition of the software.  The User shall indemnify URA and
the U.S. Government for all damages, costs or expenses, including attorney's
fees, arising from the utilization of the software, including, but not limited
to, the making, using, selling or exporting of products, processes or services
derived from the Software.  The User agrees to indemnify, hold harmless and
defend URA, its trustees, overseers, directors, officers, employees, agents,
subcontractors, successors and assigns, against any and all liability, damage,
loss, cost, charge, claim, demand, fee or expense of every nature and kind
which may at any time hereafter, be sustained by URA by reason of claims of
third parties arising out of alleged acts or omissions of the User in the
reproduction, use or other disposition of the Software.  

The User agrees that URA, its trustees, overseers, directors, officers,
employees, agents, subcontractors, successors and assigns shall not be liable
under any claim, charge, or demand, whether in contract, tort, criminal law,
or otherwise, for any and all loss, cost, charge, claim, demand, fee, expense,
or damage of every nature and kind arising out of, connected with, resulting
from or sustained as a result of the use of the software programs available
from this server.  In no event shall URA be liable for special, direct,
indirect or consequential damages, losses, costs, charges, claims, demands,
fees or expenses of any nature or kind.

Disclaimer of Warranties
------------------------
The software is provided on an "as is" basis only.  URA makes no
representations, express or implied.  URA MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE, or
assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness,
or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or
represents that the Software will not infringe any privately held patent,
copyright, or trademark.  The entire risk as to the results and the
performance of this software is assumed by the User.

Disclaimer of Endorsement
-------------------------
Reference herein to any specific commercial products, process, or service by
tradename, trademark, manufacturer or otherwise, does not constitute or imply
its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government,
U.S. Department of Energy or URA.  The views and opinions of individuals
expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United
States Government, U.S. Department of Energy or URA and shall not be used for
advertising or product endorsement purposes.

Liabilities of the Government
-----------------------------
This software is provided by URA, independent from its Prime Contract with the
U.S. Department of Energy.  URA is acting independently from the Government
and in its own private capacity and is not acting on behalf of the U.S.
Government, nor as its contractor nor its agent.  Correspondingly, it is
understood and agreed that the U.S. Government has no connection to this
software and in no manner whatsoever shall be liable for nor assume any
responsibility or obligation for any claim, cost, or damages arising out of or
resulting from the use of the software available from this server.


